so we recently discussed text
classification now we're going to switch
to a slightly related topic in the
information area TiVo specifically text
clustering so what is the difference
between text classification and text
clustering in text classification we
know in advance what sort of classes
we're looking for whether they're
overlapping or not whether they are
hierarchical or not
however in text clustering we don't know
that in advance we have to figure out
first of all how many clusters there are
in the data and then decide which
documents go to in each cluster so in
costing we also have this issue of
exclusive versus overlap in clusters so
a document in the first case may only be
assigned to one cluster in the second
case it may be assigned to multiple
clusters and we can also have the same
distinction as in classification between
hierarchical and flat clustering so in
information with you there is this very
important principle called the cluster
hypothesis that says that documents in
the same cluster are usually relevant to
the same query so if somehow several
documents are similar to each other and
one of them is relevant to a particular
query that means that the rest of the
documents in the cluster also expected
to be relevant to it so how do we do
this in practice now let's look at an
example so this is a class T it is a an
old information interval system that
clusters documents based on word census
so the word here is Jaguar Jaguar is
obvious an ambiguous word in English it
can correspond to a sports team to a car
to an animal and to several other things
so the idea here is that when the search
engine achieves all the documents that
match Jaguar it looks at how similar
they are to each other and then he tries
to identify all the clusters that
correspond to the different word census
of Jaguar without knowing in advance
that Jaguar is ambiguous or that knowing
that it has a certain number of census
so you it gives you a one cluster for
cars one cluster for animals and so on
so one of the simplest techniques for
document clustering is a so-called
k-means method it's done by iteratively
determining which cluster a point
belongs to and then adjusting the
cluster centroid for that cluster and
then repeat so
these needed however is to know the
number of clusters in advance okay
and k-means is based on hard decision so
once the document is assigned to a
certain cluster it can only be there and
it cannot change clusters and it cannot
be assigned to another cluster
simultaneously so against algorithm we
initialize the cluster centroids for the
K cluster to some arbitrary vector and
then while further improvement is
possible we do the following for each
document D we find which cluster is
closest to the document D and then we
assign this document to the cluster C
and then for each cluster C we recompute
the centroid of class just C based on
its documents and that's it okay so
let's look at an example for k-means
clustering we have k equals 2 and we
have six vectors that we want to
classify into those two clusters so the
documents are one six two two four zero
three three two five and two one as I
said before we can assign arbitrary
values to the cluster centroids at the
beginning let's make it simple we're
going to have plus zero labeled as 0 0
that would be the centroid for that
class in class one having a centroid at
six six so it will be much easier to
compute the distances from each of those
vectors to the centroids in our heads so
let's look at document a is it closer to
0 0 or 266 well it should be pretty
obvious that based on both Euclidean and
my hat and distance that it belongs to
the second cluster 6 6 document B with
the value of 2 2 is going to be closer
to centroid 0 0 C is also going to
because it was 0 0 now D is an
interesting example because it's right
in the middle between the two centroids
so we cannot really use it in this round
we can ignore it
e 2 5 is closer to 6 6 then 2 0 0 and
finally F at 2.1 is closer to 0 0 than
266 so what happens after the first half
of the first iteration is that out of
the 6 documents we have labeled five of
them one way or the other
and specifically documents B C and F
belong to the cluster at centered at 0 0
and
commence a and II belong to the second
cluster so now we can do the second part
of the first iteration namely
recomputing the centroids so let's do
this for the cluster that used to be
zero zero so now it includes two two
four zero and two one so the new
centroid is just going to be the average
of those vectors so two plus four plus
two is equal to 8/3 so 8/3 for the first
dimension and then for the second
dimension two plus zero plus 1 so 3
divided by 3 or 1 for the second
dimension so we have essentially two and
two thirds comma 1 as the new centroid
for the first cluster now the second
cluster the one that used to be at six
six is going to be computed as follows
we have to take the average of one six
and two five so the first dimension is
going to be at one point five and the
second dimension is going to be at five
point five so those are now the two new
centroids after the first full eration
and now we can repeat the same procedure
by reassigning each of those documents
ABCDEF to one of those two clusters and
then recomputing the centroids again and
we have to repeat this sequence of
iterations as many times as necessary
until the centroids converge what that
means is that the moment that the two
centroids don't change from one
iteration to the next we can stop
because they're never going to change
from that point on so there are some
websites that have interesting demos of
k-means so one is here and second one
third one fourth one so I would like to
encourage you to look at those tutorials
and understand k-means a little bit
better so how do we evaluate clustering
so again in all the cases that we had so
far we assume that we know in advance
the number of clusters one important
thing to realize is that if we don't
know the number of clusters we says you
have to do the following we can try
different values for K and then figure
out which of those clusterings gives us
better performance so here's one way to
evaluate the performance of cluster the
first technique that we're going to
introduce is called purity and it is
based on the majority class of each in
each of the clusters and the second one
is the so called hand index which is
going to be
shown on the next slide so let's look at
purity first we have three clusters the
first one has three X's and two circles
the second one has these circles one X
and 1% and the last one has four
percents and two x's so how pure are
those clusters well the first cluster
the majority class is X and three other
five elements in that plaster are X's
therefore its purity is 60 percent the
second cluster has the same value three
circles out of five for the majority
class again purity of sixty percent and
finally the last cluster we have four
out of six or 67% for the majority class
of percent and then we can take the
average of those over the entire set in
compute the overall purity so this is
three plus three plus four divided by 16
which is a total number of elements that
we clustered and that gives us a total
purity of sixty two point five percent
obviously if we had the first plastic
consisting only of excess the second
cluster consisting only of circles and
the third one consisting only of
percents we would get a punitive 100
percent so the next metric that is used
in evaluating clustering disorder hand
index so Randy necks is based on the
following principle we're going to score
points every time we get two objects
that really belong to the same class
labeled together in the same cluster and
we're going to lose points every time we
have again two objects that should be in
the same cluster and we label them in
different clusters so the R and index
value is equal to the number of two
positives plus the number of two
negatives divided by the total number of
all the pairs of objects so here's an
example using the same examples on the
previous slide the number of two
positives and the number of false
positives together in the first example
we have five total objects there's five
choose two pairs of those five objects
so that gives us 10 we also have 5
choose 2 pairs for the second cluster so
another 10 and finally we have 6 choose
to cast a pairs in the third cluster for
15 so the total number of positives is
35 those are the things that
we are supposed to get into the same
cluster now we can similarly compute the
number of two positives separately so in
the first case we have three x's so
teachers 2 is equal to 6 and then the
same thing for the next cluster 3 choose
2 and the final cluster we have both 2
different kinds of objects that appear
together so first one appears four times
so we have 4 choose 2 and the last one
there only two so we pick 2 choose 2 so
the sum of those four terms is equal to
13 so the number of false positives is
equal to the first number minus the
second number or 35 minus 13 which is
equal to 22 so this gives us two of the
cells in the contingency table
specifically 2 positive and false
positive we can use the same math to
compute the false negatives which are 21
and the 2 negatives which are 64 and now
we can compute their hand index it's
again 2 positives plus 2 negatives
burned by the total number or 13 plus 64
divided by 120 which is equal to zero
point 64 so again this is a moderately
good agreement of the clustering
algorithm if we had everything correctly
clustered the exact same was in the gold
standard there and index is going to be
equal to 1 because we're only going to
have two positives and two negatives and
none of the other two categories so
there are other methods for clustering
that are specifically designated for
hierarchical clustering everything that
we looked at so far was mostly for flat
clustering so one of the techniques that
is used is the so called single linkage
method in single linkage you take two
objects you figure out how similar they
are to each other and if you think that
they're similar enough you put them in
the same cluster so then to collapse two
clusters you have to figure out if
there's even one pair of documents that
are close enough to each other you're
going to merge the two clusters so this
has disadvantages that you can get very
long chains of documents that are not
even related to each other
they're just pairwise related but the
first one is very different from the
last one and you still have them in the
same cluster so another method is the so
called complete linkage method in which
case in order to merge two clusters you
have to consider all the pairs of
documents where one is in one cluster
and one is India
cluster and if they're similar enough to
each other then we merge the two
clusters one disadvantage of this method
is that it is too conservative and
finally we can have so-called an average
linkage method which is based on the
average similarity of objects in the two
clusters so let's look at an example
here suppose it those are our documents
we're going to start by collapsing
together the documents that are most
similar to each other so for example 1 &
2 in the same cluster 3 & 4 in the same
cluster 5 & 6 in the same cluster and
then 7 & 8 in the same classes so now
this part are going to have four classes
of two documents and then in this case
depending on the algorithm we would
either merge 1 2 with 3 4 & 5 6 with 7 8
or we would merge 1 2 5 6 & 3 4 7 8 and
then the last step of the hierarchical
clustering process we're going to merge
the two remaining clusters into one so
at the very end we're going to have one
big cluster that includes all the eight
documents and then two sub clusters that
include four documents each and then
finally those four going to be grouped
into groups of two so let's look at an
example of hierarchical agglomerative
clustering using dendrogram so
dendrogram is a technique that builds a
hierarchical structure based on
similarity so here's an example from
language similarity we have five six
Germanic languages Icelandic Norwegian
Swedish Danish Dutch in German and we
want to measure how similar they are
based on the use of different words so
in this case it turns out that Norwegian
and Swedish are more similar to each
other at around 0.12 so we're going to
cluster them together at that level then
that new cluster the wigeon Swedish is
going to be merged with a cluster for
Danish at 0.16
then dutching German are similar to each
other about 0.29 so they're going to be
clustered together there then the group
that consists of Norwegian Swedish and
Danish is going to be merged with
Icelandic at around 0.36 and finally the
two remaining clusters are going to be
clustered at 0.7 into the whole
collection so this gives us a very nice
presentation which allows us to produce
any number of clusters so if we start on
the right hand side and you move a
vertical bar to the left if that bar is
that that is 0.8 we just say that we
have one cluster if we lower it at 0.5
then it's going to cause the two
horizontal lines that I've 0.5 we're
going to have a nordic group of four
languages and another group of two
languages then if we slide this vertical
bar again to let say 0.25 we're going to
get four clusters and if we slide it all
the way down to 0.1 we're going to get
six clusters so an example of this is
shown at the website below so let's now
look at an example for clustering using
dendrograms suppose that you have the
following sentences or following
documents the first one is a b c ba next
one is a DC c a d e and so on and we
want to build a hierarchical clustering
diagram using dendrograms so what do we
need to do we have to compute the
pairwise similarities between all the
pairs of documents so 1 2 2 1 2 3 1 2 4
and so on we identify the closest pair
in this case that could be for example
document 1 and document 2 and now we
have to merge them into a single node
based on the frequencies of the words
that appear in the two documents
combined and then we repeat this until
all the documents have been clustered
and we can also represent this as a Venn
diagram where depending on the
similarity metric we may get something
like the first doctor in the second
document in one cluster the fourth and
the fifth one in another cluster then
the fourth and the fifth combined with
the third one in another cluster and
then all five in another cluster so this
concludes the section on text clustering
we're going to continue with a different
topic